---
layout: page
permalink: /research/index.html
title: Research
modified: 2016-9-28
---

Past Work and Publications
=========

2014
----

### [A method of evolving novel feature extraction algorithms for detecting buried objects in FLIR imagery using genetic programming](http://spie.org/Publications/Proceedings/Paper/10.1117/12.2049950)

#### *Authors: Paino, Alex; Keller, James; Popescu, Mihail; Stone, Kevin*

__Abstract:__ In this paper we present an approach that uses Genetic Programming (GP) to evolve novel feature extraction algorithms for greyscale images. Our motivation is to create an automated method of building new feature extraction algorithms for images that are competitive with commonly used human-engineered features, such as Local Binary Pattern (LBP) and Histogram of Oriented Gradients (HOG). The evolved feature extraction algorithms are functions defined over the image space, and each produces a real-valued feature vector of variable length. Each evolved feature extractor breaks up the given image into a set of cells centered on every pixel, performs evolved operations on each cell, and then combines the results of those operations for every cell using an evolved operator. Using this method, the algorithm is flexible enough to reproduce both LBP and HOG features. The dataset we use to train and test our approach consists of a large number of pre-segmented image “chips” taken from a Forward Looking Infrared Imagery (FLIR) camera mounted on the hood of a moving vehicle. The goal is to classify each image chip as either containing or not containing a buried object. To this end, we define the fitness of a candidate solution as the cross-fold validation accuracy of the features generated by said candidate solution when used in conjunction with a Support Vector Machine (SVM) classifier. In order to validate our approach, we compare the classification accuracy of an SVM trained using our evolved features with the accuracy of an SVM trained using mainstream feature extraction algorithms, including LBP and HOG.
\[[pdf](/pdfs/SPIE2014_GFP_Paino.pdf)\]

2013
----

### [Using evolutionary computation to optimize an SVM used in detecting buried objects in FLIR imagery](http://dx.doi.org/10.1117/12.2014774)

#### *Authors: Paino, Alex; Popescu, Mihail; Keller, James; Stone, Kevin*

__Abstract:__ In this paper we describe an approach for optimizing the parameters of a Support Vector Machine (SVM) as part of an algorithm used to detect buried objects in forward looking infrared (FLIR) imagery captured by a camera installed on a moving vehicle. The overall algorithm consists of a spot-finding procedure (to look for potential targets) followed by the extraction of several features from the neighborhood of each spot. The features include local binary pattern (LBP) and histogram of oriented gradients (HOG) as these are good at detecting texture classes. Finally, we project and sum each hit into UTM space along with its confidence value (obtained from the SVM), producing a confidence map for ROC analysis. In this work, we use an Evolutionary Computation Algorithm (ECA) to optimize various parameters involved in the system, such as the combination of features used, parameters on the Canny edge detector, the SVM kernel, and various HOG and LBP parameters. To validate our approach, we compare results obtained from an SVM using parameters obtained through our ECA technique with those previously selected by hand through several iterations of "guess and check".
\[[pdf](/pdfs/SPIE2013_8709-47ECAmanuscriptPainoFINAL.pdf)\]

2012
----

### [Detection of buried objects in FLIR imaging using mathematical morphology and SVM](http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=6291520&isnumber=6291498)

#### *Authors: Popescu, Mihail; Paino, Alex; Stone, Kevin; Keller, James*

__Abstract:__ In this paper we describe a method for detecting buried objects of interest using a forward looking infrared camera (FLIR) installed on a moving vehicle. Infrared (IR) detection of buried targets is based on the thermal gradient between the object and the surrounding soil. The processing of FILR images consists in a spot-finding procedure that includes edge detection, opening and closing. Each spot is then described using texture features such as histogram of gradients (HOG) and local binary patterns (LBP) and assigned a target confidence using a support vector machine (SVM) classifier. Next, each spot together with its confidence is projected and summed in the UTM space. To validate our approach, we present results obtained on 6 one mile long runs recorded with a long wave IR (LWIR) camera installed on a moving vehicle.
\[[pdf](/pdfs/flir_cisda2012_last.pdf)\]
